[Man On Recording,
Speaking Somali]
[Woman ]
“Muhammed, the police—
they don’t know anything.”
[Man #2 On Recording,
Speaking Somali]
[Woman ]
“But someone told the police
about the room.
They know about the girl.
What do we do, Bennet?”
[ lI/lan Speaking Somali]
This is the other guy now.
“They won’t be able to find you.
We just need to stay calm, okay?”
[Man Speaks Somali]
The other guy agrees.
[ Bennet ] The passports
Will be arriving tomorrow.
Call me when they do.
Then this will all be over.
Is that everything?
Yes.
Call me if you need
anything else.
Thank you very much.
Hook, line and sinker.
[ Door Closes ]
No way L.T.’s gonna
call that circumstantial.
Do we have the number
of the incoming call?
Phone company needs
a 24-hour turnaround to get it.
But that don’t matter, Linden.
We know that’s Bennet
on the wire.
All we gotta do now
is cross our i’s and dot our t’s.
[ Beeping ]
[Line Rings]
This is Detective Linden.
Send two units
to 827 Hudson Street.
Tell them to keep eyes
on Bennet Ahmed till I get there.
Type up the warrant and have
yourjudge friend sign it.
We’ll pick up Bennet right after.
Right. I’m on it.
Call me as soon as it’s done.
Where you goin’?
Make sure we dot the i’s
and cross the t’s.
[ Car Alarm Beeps ]
[Cell Phone Ringing]
Linden.
Hello.
lt’s Mitch Larsen.
What can I do for you,
Mrs. Larsen?
/ want to apologize
for the other day.
/ shou/dn ’t ha ve
taken that out on you.
It’s not necessary.
Ha I/e you
arrested h/m yet?
/ need to know.
It’ll be over tonight.
Thank you.
I’ll be in touch, Mrs. Larsen.
[Cell Phone Beeps]
[Engine Starts]
[Vehicle Approaches]
I don’t want to fight.
It’s over.
They’re arresting the teacher.
Thank you all for coming.
Completely
false allegations
have surfaced this evening...
that I normally
wouldn’t even
dignify with a response.
But I believe these
lies are part of a
smear campaign...
coming from
Councilman Richmond’s
camp...
making it necessary
for me and my family...
to share
some personal
information.
My wife, Cindy,
and l have been blessed...
with three
wonderful children.
But in 2006,
for medical reasons...
l undenNent a procedure
that guaranteed
I’d never father again.
Not only have I never
had sexual relations
with that young woman,
it’s impossible that I am
the father of her child.
[ People Chattering ]
[Jamie] Did I ever tell you
how smart I thought you were...
before you made
this phone call?
[ Chuckles ]
That’s if /
was running for mayor.
Fact of the matter is
I’m not.
You don’t really
believe this guy?
Come on, Mike.
You know us better than that.
Yeah, well, Adams is lying.
Our campaign had nothing
to do with this story.
[Adams On TV]
A desperate act by a desperate man.
Son of a bitch.
Thank you.
I thought our fingerprints
wouldn’t be on this.
We’re releasing
a statement tonight...
highlighting our solid history
of running a clean campaign.
Which we clearly did not.
Now it’s my word against his.
I tried to tell you this would backfire.
You shouldn’t have listened to him.
What is she doing here?
[ Jamie ]
The fact of the matter is
we didn’t know about it.
To what do I owe the pleasure
this time, Detective?
I need dates for all of Bennet Ahmed’s
appearances at the All Stars Program.
You have our records,
all of them.
Actually, we don’t.
I know Bennet had access
to the campaign cars,
regardless of how incomplete
those records are.
l have done everything
in my power to aid your
investigation from the beginning,
and I am sick to death
of your implication...
that my campaign
had anything to do
with that girl’s murder.
I need those records.
Did he do it?
Have your staff
send the files tonight.
His mud-slinging tactics
are what give politics
and politicians a bad name.
Now, if you’ll excuse me,
I need to be with my family.
Thank you, Mayor.
She’ll see you home.
[ Cindy ]
Bye.
You handled that
perfectly, Mayor.
With enough conviction,
the truth is whatever you say it is.
Give that girl double
what I’m paying her now
and call Dr. Armstrong.
Tell him to backdate
and sign whatever
medical records I’ll need.
This story ends now.
I want to sit down
first thing tomorrow morning
with the Machinists rep,
whatever his name is.
Richmond’s sinking,
and the rats are gonna
startjumping ship.
They already have.
Word is Drexler pulled
his financial backing.
A shame. I was looking fonnard
to screwin’ ’em both.
[Treadmill Whirring Slowly]
[Quiet Groan]
I should hold you in contempt
for coming here.
[ Both Chuckle ]
Make it quick.
I need an emergency wiretap
on a murder suspect
we’ve been tracking.
This guy’s a flight risk.
We just don’t have time
to cut through all the red tape.
He might be hightailing it
as we speak.
It’s kinda like when l bugged
that crank dealer, Jimmy Slick,
a few years back.
I remember that.
Bastard had more snow
than Mount Rainier.
[ Both Laughing]
It’s the same thing.
Just needs your
John Hancock, Rusty.
Well, give me
yourpen,son.
[ Police Radio Chatter]
My partner and I will take
the suspect into custody.
We anticipate
that he will come quietly.
But in case he runs,
we need two of you to cover
the alley in the back,
and you two watch the front.
Also, suspect’s wife is pregnant...
so radio Seattle General
and have an ambulance on call.
Thanks.
All right. Come on.
Patriot Act?
We’ll have it over
to the A.D.A.’s office
first thing in the morning.
He won’t have any problem
getting on board.
Yes, he will.
Didn’t do your homework
on this one, Stephen.
[Sighs]
[Treadmill Beeps]
Patriot Act’s for terrorists,
not some cure-all
for sloppy police work.
Too many times
I’ve seen it used
for booting out wetbacks...
and peeking
into panty drawers.
- Well, not in my court, son.
- The feds are watchin’ him right now.
I’m sure you both
can cooperate.
Rusty. Rusty.
If you don’t sign this,
Rosie Larsen’s killer’s gonna walk.
[Sighs]
Wait for my signal.
You got it.
[Cell Phone Rings]
Holder, you got it signed?
The warrant’s
dead in the water.
He wou/dn ’t do it.
My bad, Linden.
l’m sorry
[Siren Wailing ln Distance]
[ Bennet 0n Recording,
Speaking Somali]
The passports wﬂl be
arriving tomorrow
Call me when they do.
Then this will all be over.
I wish I could play for you
the phone call I got from
A.D.A. Bernstein this morning...
asking me why
one of my detectives is
going directly to a judge...
to obtain
an illegal wiretap!
Sir—
I don’t give a rat’s ass
how you did things in County!
Now, you obviously don’t like
being a city homicide detective,
do you?
It was my idea.
I told him to set up the tap.
You’re supposed to keep him
from screwing up,
not show him how!
We don’t need the tap
as evidence.
We get the phone company
to unblock Muhammed’s number,
track its location.
We get Muhammed, we get Bennet.
With that little stunt
last night?
[Scoffs ] A public defender
could get that thrown out.
So is that it then?
| asked you to stay here
to solve this case,
not ruin my career.
I didn’t realize that’s what I’ve
been doing all these years.
[Man On Message Machine,
lndist/nct ]
And he said he’d file a suit
if they continue to harass us.
You want to get
Chinese food tonight?
Sounds great, baby.
There’s a new place
over on Weller.
Supposed to be good.
[Cell Phone Beeps]
[Cell Phone Ringing]
Who is it?
I don’t know. Here.
Hello.
Yeah. Give me a sec.
[ Clears Throat]
[ Door Closes ]
lt’s unfortunate
that Councilman Richmond...
has chosen to vicious/y
attack my integrity
You lying p—
Your family has no integrity!
[Female Announcer On TV]
Ma yorAdams ’5 campaign
remains hush on the issue.
Mean while, the alleged mistress,
Miss Janelle Stevens...
has refused to comment
on the situation.
[TV Off]
She obviously
didn’t refuse the check.
They’re going to try
to bury this.
That’s why I put Penato
on retainer last night.
Your PI. is not going to get him
to renege his statement.
It doesn’t mean Adams’s
personal physician won’t.
Maybe he has
a malpractice suit in the past.
Hell, maybe we make one up.
There’s a lot of ways
to get the story out.
And how is this
affecting his numbers?
Well, his base isn’t wavering,
but we’re under fire.
The Machinists
are getting cold feet.
The mayor is going to try
to leverage his Waterfront...
and dangle new jobs
in front of them.
The Somalis are terrified
of leaving their own homes.
Dozens of storefronts
have been vandalized.
Even the Green Lake Mosque
was defaced.
VVhen?
[ Jamie ]
Yesterday.
We can deal
with that later, Darren.
You should’ve told me.
I’m sorry. We have
other things going on.
I made a big mistake listening
to you, and so I deserve this,
but they don’t.
The mudslinging’s finished.
Am I clear?
Yeah. Your call, Darren.
Mitch.
[ Mitch ]
Hey.
I gotta run.
Got an early shift.
But there’s some pasta
in the fridge, and you can
nuke it for dinner tonight.
Oh. Uh, I found
these textbooks in my car.
Rosie must’ve
accidentally forgot ’em.
l was gonna drop ’em off
at the school
on my way to work.
Is that okay?
No, l’ll— I’ll take ’em.
Thanks, Ter.
Mm-hmm.
[ Beeping ]
[Line Rings ]
[Man ]
Seattle Police Department
Um—
[ Exhales ]
Detective Sarah Linden,
please.
Hold, please.
[Busy S/gna/ Beeping ]
[Beeps]
[Sighs]
Professional roofer’s
too expensive.
I’m gonna see what I can do.
[ People Chattering ]
[ Grunts ]
The bank appraiser’s taking
a look at the house next week.
Hopin’ I don’t have
to drop the price too much.
I fixed a couple of leaks
in my mom’s attic.
Yeah?
Yeah,
maybe I can help you out.
Grab some beers,
see what we can do.
Yeah.
You know.
Maybe you should
keep the house.
Business will turn around,
you know.
Boys will really like
that backyard.
Yeah, they would.
Can I have
my bike?
Well, of course
you can, sweetie.
Belko, give me the bike.
Wait a sec. Wait.
Gotta fix it first.
Why?
I gotta put the chain back on.
What for?
Look here. See, the chain
is what makes the wheel
turn when you pedal.
And if it’s not on, you’d just
be pedalin’ and pedalin’
and not goin’ anywhere.
We gotta do it
this way first, see?
It’s a sneaky little chain.
Go round. See?
Look at that.
All right. There you go.
Got it?
Oh. Let’s put this on too.
Chin. Watch your chin.
There we go.
Okay, now you’re set.
You ready?
Yep.
There you go.
Be careful.
lwill. Thank you.
[ Kids Chattering ]
[ Holder]
At least you got Sonoma.
[ Police Radio Chatter]
By the weekend, I’m gonna be
working as a security guard
at the Space Needle.
Could always get a job
teaching algebra.
So if Oakes has his head
three and a half feet up his ass...
and Judge Elliot has his head
18 inches up his ass,
how many total feet of ass
do you get?
It’s, like, five feet of ’em.
Rosie’s handwriting.
“Adela”? What’s that?
Maybe a friend of hers.
Does that name
ring any bells?
No.
[ Exhales ]
“Friday, 11:45.”
Could be a meet-up
after the dance.
But who the hell is Adela?
[Amber]
I don’t think
that I should be here.
We know that you love
your husband, Mrs. Ahmed.
Helping us will help him.
Will it?
Really?
Muhammed’s number.
They were on the phone
last night.
[ Breath Quavers ]
| th— I think
that they did something.
[ Door Opens, Closes]
You’re doing the right thing—
for you and for your daughter.
Morning.
[Teachers Murmuring ]
Hey, Carl, can I borrow
your projector seventh period
if you’re not using it?
Sure.
Great.
[Murmuring]
He’s back there.
[Sighs]
Mr. Ahmed.
Mrs. Meyers.
Good to see you.
What are you doing here?
I thought we agreed
it was best for everyone
if you took some time off.
Oh. I didn’t agree
to anything.
You can’t be here.
You have to leave.
If you think I’ve done
something wrong, then fire me.
Othen/vise,
I have a class to teach.
Excuse me.
[ Exhales ]
[ Kids Chattering ]
Over the past few days,
um, a lot of false rumors
have been circulating about me.
If you want to ask me
any questions, please
feel free to do so now.
If there are no questions,
then open your books
to page 322.
[ Clears Throat]
[ Pages Turning ]
[ Richmond ]
Imam.
I came as soon as I heard.
I’m so sorry.
This is terrible.
I, too, am sorry,
Councilman.
Tell me what I can do.
Can you change
the way people think?
Many children
are here today...
because
their parents are afraid
to send them to school.
I understand your frustration.
Do you?
Imam, l have stood by
this community.
I will stand by this community
whether I’m elected mayor or not.
You know me.
I’m asking you to trust me.
Tabid— he owns
a store on 23rd.
While the FBI.
took him away
to ask questions,
bricks were thrown
through the window,
his store was looted.
The police never came.
[Speaking Somali ]
How can I ask them to trust
you or your government?
[ Man] Okay. Let’s go.
It’s not just my government.
It’s our government.
And we will rebuild this community.
I promise you.
I want to believe you,
Councilman.
But Mayor Adams made
the same promise years ago.
And you both play
the same games.
Guy at the phone company
says the phone is registered
to Muhammed Hamid.
D.M.V. photo’s from ’06.
It’s the only pic on file.
The phone’s G.P.S. pinpoints him
at the intersection of Union and Fifth.
That’s
the downtown market.
Dude says the phone hasn’t moved
in, like, three hours.
He’s gonna buzz me
if anything changes.
Maybe Muhammed
works there.
You promised me.
You said it was over.
It will be soon.
We just need
a little more time.
He’s at the school,
like nothing ever happened.
Free.
[Buoy Bell Clanging ln Distance]
[ People Chattering ]
[Cell Phone Ringing]
[Beeps]
Anything?
I got nothing from these
Deadliest Catch fools.
I ain’t clocked anybody
as our perp either.
I gotta be honest, Linden.
I suck at this racial profiling.
This T.S.A. job ain’t happening.
Keep looking.
[Woman Chattering
On Cell Phone]
[ Chattering Continues]
[Woman ]
Watch where you’re going.
[ Beeping ]
[Line Ringing]
[Ringing Continues]
[Beeps]
[Line Ringing]
Stop! Police!
[ Man ]
Come on, man.
[ People Exclaiming ]
[ Panting]
Out of my way!
[ Man ] What are they doin’?
[Woman ] I don’t know.
You seen this guy here?
Get down on your knees!
Hands behind your head!
Now! Do it now!
Get down on your knees!
[ Praying In Arabic]
On your knees!
Get on your knees!
[ Button Clicks]
,U‘ [ Piano: Ballad]
[ Woman]
,i /f/,/‘
,r Should lose you ,r
,r The stars would fall
from the sky ,r
I thought I’d find you here.
,/‘,/‘ [ Continues, indistinct ]
We lost the Machinists.
Then we’re both
in the right place.
It’s not over yet.
Really?
Talk about Lily.
People want to know
who you are.
They see something in you
that’s real.
Let them understand you.
Tell them
what happened to her.
They need a reason
to believe in you again.
No.
Well, then—
Then it really is over.
She always loved this song.
It was playing at
the Governor’s Ball that night.
There were so many people there.
It was so crowded.
I don’t think I said more
than two or three words to her.
All the Olympia bigwigs there
wanting my ear.
[Laughs]
I loved it. I did.
And then this song came on.
But she had left already.
I let her drive off alone.
She’s the one who believed in me,
knew what we did mattered.
But somewhere along the way,
I stopped listening.
Then listen to her now.
,r lf/ lost you .l‘J
Mitch?
Boys?
[ Mitch Sobbing ]
[ Sobbing ]
Babe?
[ Crying ]
They let him go.
Wh-What do you mean
they let him go?
You said to trust the police.
You said that
they would arrest him.
That man killed our child,
and you let him go!
[Crying]
You let him go.
Sir, we got his number
from Bennet’s wife.
I don’t care if Allah
gave you the number.
I can only keep the FBI.
out of the loop for so long.
Get a confession
and close this... now.
This guy’s
got no outstandings,
no priors, no record.
He’s got
no reason to talk.
Let’s go.
[ Door Opens, Closes]
Drexler’s got the ball,
down by one.
He’s had a monster game.
Clock running down.
Three, two, one!
But he was fouled.
He’ll go to the line
to win the game.
Ref bailed you out
on that one.
Whoa. Look who it is—
Seattle’s “great white hype.”
You come for a game
or another handout?
I need five million dollars.
[Lau h'
om 9 mg]
Oh! I thought you trying to
win the election was funny,
but that’s hilarious.
The money will rebuild
the Somali community,
some storefronts...
repair the mosque,
create jobs in the process—
Blah, blah, blah.
and win me the election.
I don’t care about the hajjis
in Rainier Valley.
I want my stadium.
Easier to get your stadium...
if people see “philanthropist”
next to your name in the news...
instead of “cocaine,” “D.U.I.” or “hooker.”
Maybe.
But I know it’ll never say “loser”
next to my name.
At least I have the balls
to play a real opponent.
[Ball Bouncing]
I got a better idea.
One shot,
and you get your five mil.
Now you miss it,
you resign from the race.
What do you say?
“Yes, we can”?
[ Linden ]
I think you know
why you’re here, Mr. Hamid.
[Woman Translating
Into Somali ]
The DA. will go
a lot easier on you...
if you tell us what happened
the night of October 5.
[ Holder]
Maybe this will translate.
You’re in some deep shit,
brother.
[Woman Translating ]
We know about Bennet.
We know you were
at his place that night.
[ Linden ] And we heard
your phone conversation
with him last night.
You just couldn’t wait
for your 72 virgins, huh?
Or do you just got a thing
for little girls?
You know,
I don’t do free checking.
You want my money,
you gotta earn it.
And here l was thinking
all your bullying
was just to get even...
for always being
the kid picked last
on the playground.
How’d that feel,
by the way?
You’re stalling, aren’t you?
You scared?
Can you feel me in your head
jumpin’ rope?
I make this shot,
I get the money.
But I also want this ball.
And after this, I won’t
be needing you anymore.
Guys like you always
need guys like me, Richmond.
[ Linden ]
We’re offering you the chance
to help yourself and end this right now.
[Woman Translating ]
If you don’t talk, we will have
to hand you over to the FBI.
Yeah, and those
Virginia farm boys,
they’re gonna pull some crazy
Guantanamo rendition shit on your ass.
Send your family
back to the motherland.
[ Linden ]
Or probably just your wife.
Your two children—
they’re citizens,
so they’ll have to stay here,
be put in a foster home.
[Woman Translating ]
[ Linden ]
Last chance, Mr. Hamid.
[Woman Translating ]
Let’s go.
[ Muhammed ]
Wait.
[Speaking Somali]
[ Holder]
What?
He said you should—
Screw you.
[Laughs]
Okay, bro. We’re outta here.
Bennet’s gonna
drop a dime on you in, like—
[Snaps Fingers] two seconds,
considering he’s got
a baby on the way.
He might want
to see her grow up.
[ Muhammed ]
She come to Bennet’s place that night.
I let her in.
Bennet, he did not want to at first,
but I told him we must.
[ Holder]
Must? Must what?
Take her.
She so scared.
Why did you take her
to the butcher shop?
Because she cry.
She keep crying.
You sick son of a bitch.
Then what happened?
[ Linden ]
Did she try to escape?
People from our mosque,
they find out where she is.
We move her again
before you people come.
Now she is safe.
Safe?
We waiting for her passport
so we can take her to Canada.
So the family
cannot find her.
What?
Canada?
What the hell you talking about?
You left her in the bottom of a lake.
Is this the girl that
you’re talking about?
[Murmurs]
That’s the girl from the papers.
She,uh—
She came to Bennet’s that night,
give me books, but she left.
[Sighs]
Then who are you
talking about?
Aisha, from our mosque.
The girl that went missing.
Her parents, they plan
to marry her the old way.
So first, they must cut her...
circumcise her like other women.
She beg me and Bennet to hide her.
She 12 years old.
What are we supposed to do?
What the hell
are you talkin’ about?
[Woman ] Female circumcision.
And it’s true.
lt’s a tradition in the Somali
community for all girls—
even little girls—
where they take a knife,
and they cut.
I’ve known women
who’ve experienced it.
It’s horribly painful.
Some have died,
and some wish they did.
Where is this girl, Aisha?
[ Linden ]
Take us to her right now.
If you take her,
her parents will send her home.
We need
to see the girl.
Please. She’s just a child.
[ Holder]
Whatever. Let’s go.
It’s Muhammed.
Open the door, Aisha.
Seattle Police Department.
Open the door.
[Cell Phone Rings]
Linden.
Thanks.
Amber called the station.
Bennet never
came home today.
Aisha!
Mr. Larsen, please!
You have to believe me!
Get out.
I had nothing to do
with your daughter!
I’ve been helping another girl!
Her name’s Aisha.
I couldn’t tell you!
I couldn’t tell the police!
Get out!
[ Belko Shouts]
[ Belko Grunting]
[ Bennet Groaning]
[ Rain Pattering ]
[ Panting ]
[ Beeping ]
[Line Ringing]
[ Exhales ]
[Line Beeps]
Stan. Call me. Now.
[ Lock Turns ]
[ Bennet, Crying ]
I didn’t do it!
I didn’t hurt your daughter!
[Stan]
Shut up!
[ Bennet Whimpering,
Groaning ]
[ Blows Pounding]
[Stan Grunting]
[ Belko Grunting, Squealing]
[ Beeping ]
[Line Ringing]
[ Holder]
I need to put an A.P.B.
out on a black male,
age 29, name of Bennet Ahmed.
[ Blows Landing ]
[Bennet Groaning,
Whimpering ]
[Grunting, Panting]
[ Belko Grunting]
No! No!
[ Panting]
English - US - PSDH